In this lecture we are going to talk about activation functions.
So first of all you may pose the question that why is it important why do we need activation functions.
So the role of activation functions is to make the natural networks non linear.
So without the activation function the network is just a linear transformation which is not strong enough
to many kinds of data.
This is what we have been talking about that if we want to calculate the activation of a given.
Now we're on we have to sum up the input activations x1 x2 up to X an and the W edge weights W on W2
up to w n.
So basically this summer x Sabai times w Sabai is just a linear transformation.
And we would like to introduce some known linearity because most of the images we want to classify for
example handwritten digits are highly non-linear.
So that's why we have to use activation functions in order to cope with the highly nonlinear feature
of the input data.
OK the other solution would be ording more paramita to the model instead of using activation functions.
But it is not a good idea because the training would be slower by the way it is a rule of thumb that
we don't like modals with lots of lots of paramita.
So instead of using lots of lots of paramita as we are going to use activation functions in order to
make the network nonlinear there are lots of lots of activation functions linear activation function
sigmoid activation function tan age activation function than the so called rectified linear unit activation
function and so on.
So what about the linear activation function.
It is the F X equals to X equation.
It is the identity operator.
It means the function parses the sign goes through unchanged.
So usually we do not change the input when dealing with the input layer.
So we can say that the input delay or has linear activation function.
So in the input layer basically we don't change the input values so we can say that we use the linear
activation function because the linear activation function does not change the data at all.
OK what about the sigmoid activation function.
This is what we have used during the feedforward.
Now what are the next for implementation in the second part of this artificial intelligence series.
So we like sigmoid transformation because it reduce extreme values and outliers in the data without
removing them.
So we don't have to remove outliers because we can deal with these values with Sigma transformation
because sigmoid function transforms that data in the range of 0 and 1.
So we can interpret the results as probabilities.
This is why we prefer logistic regression to linear regression because we can deal with probabilities.
OK.
And sigmoid activation function outputs an independent probability for each class so we can say with
a given probability that the result is a given class for example when we are classifying handwritten
digits we can say the output is the integer for weighed 95 percent probability of course a 95 percent
probability is better than 55 percent probability.
So when we are dealing with classification the probabilities do matter.
OK what about that 10 page activation function this activation function is very similar to the sigmoid
function.
But the range of 10 H is minus 1 up to plus 1.
So sigmoid function is within the range 0 and 1 10.
Age is within the range minus 1 and plus 1.
So it can handle negative values as well.
And this is the main advantage of Pan age activation function.
OK.
The most important activation function as far as the learning is concerned is the rectifiable in your
activation function which activates a node only if the input is above a certain quantity.
So if x activation function is equal to the maximum out of 0 and x.
So this is the Plaut for the really activation function.
It is very very simple as you can see on the other hand it is the most popular function because the
gradient is either 0 or constant.
The gradient is the slope of the function here.
The gradient zero here the gradient is a constant.
When we are dealing with the sigmoid the derivative of the sigmoid function is not a constant.
It is a function again for rectified linear activation function.
The gradient is either zero or a constant.
So it can solve the vanishing gradient issue.
What is this well-wishing gradient issue that the training procedure relies on the derivative of the
activation function.
We have implemented a feedforward.
Now on network network in the second part of this artificial intelligence series and we have come to
the conclusion that we have to use the derivative of the activation function.
So each of the neural networks weights receives an update proportional to the gradient of the error
or function with respect to the current weight in each iteration of the training.
So the problem is that in some cases the gradient will be when the shingle is small.
What does it mean that it prevents the weights from changing its values in the first case.
This may completely stop the neural network from further training.
OK so if the gradient is very very small it is a problem.
So when we are dealing with the sigmoid activation function the problem is that here in this region
where x is greater than five or six or smaller than the minus 6 or minus 5 the gradient to the slope
of this sigmoid function is very very close to zero.
And this is the problem because when we train in our network we use the gradient if the gradient is
very very small.
It means that we don't change that given actuates.
Basically this is the formula we are going to talk about.
So the change in the age weight is proportional to the derivative of the last function.
If the derivative or the gradient is close to zero it means that we do not change the educates at all
if we do not change the educates at all.
It means that we don't train in our own network the NOW road network is going to do the same predictions
no matter how long we trained in our own network.
So this is the when the gradient issue and if we use the rectified linear activation function where
we don't have to deal with this issue because the gradient is not going to be small it's going to be
zero or it's going to be a constant.
So this is why we use these Ereli activation function in deep learning the softer Max activation function
is usually used in the output layer in mathematics the soft max function or the normalized exponential
function is a generalization of the logistic function as you can see it is the exponential term divided
by the sum of exponential terms.
So it transforms the values in the range 0 and one that add up to 1.
What does it mean that we can assign probabilities to every single output.
So the soft max function is used in various multiclass classification methods.
For example when we would like to classify hand-written digits.
OK so we just have to use the soft Max activation function in the last layer because we want to classify
hand-written digits and we choose the class with the highest probability.
So if we are dealing with handwritten digits the output layer is going to contain as many narrowings
as the number of outputs because we kind of have zero wanted to up to nine.
There's going to be 10 possible outcomes tiny digits basically.
So that's why there are going to be 10 now with bones in the output layer.
And if we use soft Max activation function in the output layer it is going to assign a probability to
every single class.
So if we have some input soft Max activation function going to tell us it was the probability that the
given input is zero was the probability that a given input is a 1.
What's the probability that a given input is a 2.
And so on.
And we just have to choose the one with the highest probability.
And this is how we can classify handwritten digits.
OK so these are the two most important activation functions in deep learning already filed in your activation
function because it can solve one machine gradient issue.
And the soft Max activation function with this formula because we can assign a probability to every
single outcome in a malty class classification algorithm.
Thanks for watching.